.TH nmsg-dnstap 1

.SH NAME

nmsg-dnstap \- Receive Frame Streams DNSTAP from a socket and sends NMSG to ZeroMQ or UDP endpoints

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B nmsg-dnstap [ -w \fIzep\fB [ -w ... ] ] [ -s \fIsep\fB [ -s ... ] ]
.br
.B "	[ -u \fIsocket-path\fB ] [ -a \fIIP\fB -p \fIport\fB ]"
.br
.B "	[ -t \fIcontent-type\fB ] [ -b \fIbuffer-size\fB ]"
.br
.B "	[ -d [-d ...] ]"

.PP

.B nmsg-dnstap [ --writezsock \fIzep\fB [ --writezsock ... ] ]
.br
.B "	[ --writesock \fIsep\fB [ --writesock ... ] ]
.br
.B "	[ --unix \fIsocket-path\fB ] [ --tcp \fIIP\fB --port \fIport\fB ]"
.br
.B "	[ --type \fIcontent-type\fB ] [ --buffersize \fIbuffer-size\fB ]"
.br
.B "	[ --debug [--debug ...] ]"


.SH DESCRIPTION

.B nmsg-dnstap
listens on a UNIX domain or TCP socket, receives Frame Streams data,
and sends NMSG base:dnstap payloads to ZeroMQ endpoint(s) and/or
UDP-socket endpoint(s).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -w \fIzep\fB | --writezsock \fIzep\fB
Write NMSG data to a ZeroMQ endpoint.
See \fInmsgtool\fR man-page for a full description of the options available here.

.TP
.B -s \fIsep\fB | --writesock \fIsep\fB
Write NMSG data to an UDP socket endpoint. This is of the form \fIIPAddress/Port\fR.
There must be at least one \fB-w/--writezsock\fR or \fB-s/--writesock\fR option specified.

.TP
.B -t \fIcontent-type\fB | --type \fIcontent-type\fB
Specify the \fIcontent-type\fR to receive from the socket and send
to the ZeroMQ endpoints(s). The default is \fIprotobuf:dnstap.Dnstap\fB

.TP
.B -u \fIsocket-path\fB | --unix \fIsocket-path\fB
Listen on the Unix domain socket \fIsocket-path\fR to receive Frame
Streams data. Only one of \fB-u\fR or \fB-a\fR may be given.

.TP
.B -a \fIIP\fB | --tcp \fIIP\fB
Listen for TCP connections on address \fIIP\fR to receive Frame Streams
data. Only one of \fB-u\fR or \fB-a\fR may be given. Use of \fB-a\fR
requires a port given with \fB-p\fR.

.TP
.B -p \fIport\fB | --port \fIport\fB
If \fB-a\fR is given, listen on TCP port \fIport\fR to receive Frame
Streams data.

.TP
.B -b \fIbuffersize\fB | --buffersize \fIbuffersize\fB
Set read buffer size to \fIbuffersize\fR bytes.
The \fIbuffersize\fR also affects the maximum frame size which
\fBnmsg-dnstap\fR will accept. Frames larger than \fIbuffersize\fR,
including the 4-byte framing overhead, will be discarded.

The default \fIbuffersize\fR is 262144 (256KiB).

.TP
.B -d [ -d ... ] | --debug [ --debug ]
Increase debugging level. Without \fB-d\fR, \fBnmsg-dnstap\fR prints only
critical error messages. Up to five \fB-d\fR options may be specified, after
which more repetitions will have no effect.

.SH EXAMPLES

Receive dnstap data and sends NMSG payloads to ZeroMQ endpoint \fI/tmp/nmsg.sock\fR on the local machine.

.nf
	nmsg-dnstap -u /var/run/named/dnstap.sock \\
		-w ipc::///tmp/nmsg.sock,accept,pushpull
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR nmsgtool (1),
.BR fstrm_capture (1),
.BR fstrm_dump (1),
.BR fstrm_replay (1),
.br
Frame Streams C Library \fBhttps://farsightsec.github.io/fstrm\fR
